Eliminate parsing chapter (#1128)
hadley/r4ds: strings.qmd

We'll begin with the details of creating strings and character vectors.
You'll then dive into creating strings from data, then the opposite; extracting strings from data.

> We'll then discuss tools that work with individual letters, and finish off with a brief discussion of how English The chapter finishes up with functions that work with individual letters and a brief discussion of where your expectations from English might steer you wrong when working with other languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll then discuss tools that work with individual letters. The chapter finishes off with functions that work with individual letters and a brief discussion of where your expectations from English might steer you wrong when working with other languages.
```

## Letters

In this section, we'll introduce you to functions that allow you to work with the individual letters within a string.

> You'll learn how to finding the length of a string, extract substrings, and handl long strings in plots and tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll learn how to find the length of a string, extract substrings, and handle long strings in plots and tables.
```

### Encoding

When working with non-English text the first challenge is often the **encoding**.
To understand what's going on, we need to dive into the details of how computers represent strings.
In R, we can get at the underlying representation of a string using `charToRaw()`:

```{r}
charToRaw("Hadley")
```

Each of these six hexadecimal numbers represents one letter: `48` is H, `61` is a, and so on.
The mapping from hexadecimal number to character is called the encoding, and in this case the encoding is called ASCII.
ASCII does a great job of representing English characters, because it's the **American** Standard Code for Information Interchange.

Things aren't so easy for languages other than English.
In the early days of computing there were many competing standards for encoding non-English characters.
For example, there were two different encodings for Europe: Latin1 (aka ISO-8859-1) was used for Western European languages and Latin2 (aka ISO-8859-2) was used for Central European languages.
In Latin1, the byte `b1` is "±", but in Latin2, it's "ą"!
Fortunately, today there is one standard that is supported almost everywhere: UTF-8.

> UTF-8 can encode just about every character used by humans today, as well as many extra symbols like emoji.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UTF-8 can encode just about every character used by humans today, as well as many extra symbols like emojis.
```

readr uses UTF-8 everywhere.

> This is a good default, but will fail for data produced by older systems that don't know use UTF-8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a good default but will fail for data produced by older systems that don't use UTF-8.
```

If this happens to you, your strings will look weird when you print them.
Sometimes just one or two characters might be messed up; other times you'll get complete gibberish.

> For example here are two inline csvs with unusual encodings[^strings-8]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example here are two inline CSVs with unusual encodings[^strings-8]:
```

read_csv(x2, locale = locale(encoding = "Shift-JIS"))
```

How do you find the correct encoding?
If you're lucky, it'll be included somewhere in the data documentation.
Unfortunately, that's rarely the case, so readr provides `guess_encoding()` to help you figure it out.
It's not foolproof, and it works better when you have lots of text (unlike here), but it's a reasonable place to start.
Expect to try a few different encodings before you find the right one.

```{r}
guess_encoding(x1)
guess_encoding(x2)
```

Encodings are a rich and complex topic, and we've only scratched the surface here.
If you'd like to learn more we recommend reading the detailed explanation at <http://kunststube.net/encoding/>.

### Letter variations

If you're working with individual letters (e.g. with `str_length()` and `str_sub()`) there's an important challenge if you're working with an language that has accents because letters might be represented as an individual character or by combing an unaccented letter (e.g. ü) with a diacritic mark (e.g. ¨).
For example, this code shows two ways of representing ü that look identical:

```{r}
u <- c("\u00fc", "u\u0308")
str_view(u)
```

> But they have a different length and the first character is different:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But they have different lengths and the first characters are different:
```

```{r}
str_length(u)
str_sub(u, 1, 1)
```

> Finally note that these strings look differently when you compare them with `==`, which is stringr provides the handy `str_equal()` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally note that these strings look differently when you compare them with `==`, for which is stringr provides the handy `str_equal()` function:
```

To avoid this problem, stringr defaults to using English rules, by using the "en" locale, and requires you to specify the `locale` argument to override it.
Fortunately there are two sets of functions where the locale really matters: changing case and sorting.

**T**he rules for changing case are not the same in every language.
For example, Turkish has two i's: with and without a dot, and it capitalizes them in a different way to English:

```{r}
str_to_upper(c("i", "ı"))
str_to_upper(c("i", "ı"), locale = "tr")
```

Sorting strings depends on the order of the alphabet, and order of the alphabet is not the same in every language[^strings-9]!
Here's an example: in Czech, "ch" is a compound letter that appears after `h` in the alphabet.

[^strings-9]: Sorting in languages that don't have an alphabet, like Chinese, is more complicated still.

```{r}
str_sort(c("a", "c", "ch", "h", "z"))
str_sort(c("a", "c", "ch", "h", "z"), locale = "cs")
```

This also comes up when sorting strings with `dplyr::arrange()` which is why it also has a `locale` argument.

## Summary

> In this chapter you've learned about some of the power of the stringr package: you learned how to create, combine and extract strings, and about some of the challenges you might face with non-English strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this chapter you've learned about some of the power of the stringr package: you learned how to create, combine, and extract strings, and about some of the challenges you might face with non-English strings.
```
